PAUL LEWIS: So, I think in
the last developer diary,
I probably got to the point
where I had styled things up.
Yes, that's where I'd got to.
And since then, it's been
a lot of plumbing work,
if you like, just to
do things like offline.
But I will come back to that
in probably the next entry.
In this entry, what
I want to talk about
is a relatively
straightforward thing,
which is lazy loading of images.
So I say straightforward, I mean
straightforward in the sense
that it's not an
out there concept.
I think many of
us kind of realize
that we probably want to
defer loading of some stuff.
And many of us would
probably do on something
like a scroll basis
and possibly even
have a scroll handler to
do that kind of stuff.
Well, I've done it.
But I've done it
without scroll handling.
I've used an
IntersectionObserver.
So I thought I'd show you
that little bit of code today,
and you could just have a look.
I said that.
I said you can have a look,
and then I just said it twice.
What an idiot.
Anyway, let's have a
look at what it is.
If you look at
what's on my screen,
you'll see that I've
got the site up.
And I've got the Network
tab open and it's recording,
so that's the
network-y bit there.
And it's recording.
And when I scroll down here,
ready, steady these two poster
images here for
these two episodes,
they lazy load on the fly
based on the scroll position.
When I say the scroll
position-- based on intersecting
with the viewport.
So let's have a
quick look at what
the code looks like for that.
I have myself a lazy
load images class.
And I do a quick check to see
whether IntersectionObserver
is supported.
Because you'll see what happens
here is basically early on,
I look for anything which has
this JS lazy image class on it.
And if it does, then
I set things up to go.
But if we don't have support
for an IntersectionObserver,
I just kind of fall back
to what I think most of us
would do today, which
is just go well, look,
I can't do an
IntersectionObserver.
I'm just going to
load everything.
And that's OK.
This is a progressive
enhancement move.
This is something we can use
to improve our experiences.
And you might say, I'm not going
to load images immediately.
What I'm actually
going to do is I'm
going to fall back to a
scroll handler-based one.
You might choose to do that.
I would suggest
typically you want
to avoid anything that's
coupled to the scroll handling,
just because it's typically
the case that a scroll is
an animation, and it's
very frame rate sensitive.
And so you probably want to be
careful about doing something
that has the fire on
a scroll handling.
Anyway.
That notwithstanding,
I've decided
that if we don't have
an intersectionObserver,
we're not doing anything.
But what do we do when we've
got an IntersectionObserver
available to us?
Well, we create one of these.
And we have it observe
all of the images which
have JS lazy image class on it.
So if they don't have that
class on, we're not bothered.
If we do, then we observe them.
And what do we observe?
Well we have a threshold,
which is how much they
have to intersect.
By default, how much does it
intersect with the viewport?
And I have a 50-pixel margin.
So when you imagine the
viewport and then add
50 pixels either side,
that's the area of interest,
if you like.
And I'm asking, when
does an image intersect?
Let me know if an image
intersects that viewport
plus 50 pixels on either side.
And there's a threshold
that I need to know.
So what it does
is, if you imagine
the image being completely
inside the viewport,
that would have a value of 1.
If it's completely outside, 0.
And then as it passes, it's
going to go between 0 and 1.
And so there's a threshold.
As soon as you pass
that threshold,
I need to know about
the intersection.
And that's a hard coded
value, which is 0.01,
so it's 1% of overlap
between those two areas.
So what happens when we
do actually see that?
Well, you see I have
this dot on intersection,
as you see here,
which is called--
Because it's an observer,
we get an array of entries.
Because it's possible
that with an observer
you're going to get
a backlog of entries.
Because things
could go in and out.
And by the time you
actually get to them,
you need to maybe
sort them by date.
Actually, I don't know if
they are already sorted.
I should figure that out.
In any case, with something
like this, it's not too bad.
I just need to know whether
or not they've actually
intersected with the viewport.
And if they have, I'm fine
with just going ahead.
You might need to do
something a bit more
nuanced in your
intersectionObserver callback
where you say, well actually,
is it the most recent record?
And all these kind of things.
But you can see hopefully that
you could do some further work
on those records.
Right.
If I find that in my entry
that the intersection ratio is
less than zero, as
in it's no longer
intersecting or whatever,
don't worry about it.
Forget about it.
Don't need to know about it.
If I have already tagged the
image that is now intersecting,
if I've tagged it with
my handled class--
so that's what I
do, I tag something.
So if something goes in,
out, and then back in again,
I don't need to know
about it the second time.
So the first time it comes
in, and the first time I
see an image intersecting
with my viewport,
I tag it with this class
and say right, you're done.
And if I see that that handled
class is on, then I return.
And then the last
thing I actually
do is preload the image.
So how can I put this?
What I do is I actually
set a background image,
and I fade it in.
That's just the way I'm choosing
to do this particular concept.
It means that I can have a
placeholder with a little icon.
So if it takes a long
while to load the image,
then we can just put
something up on screen,
and then fade it in.
So I preload the
image here, which
I have a thing that goes
off, makes a new image,
sets the source, and
then does an onload
and then resolves the promise.
Which you find inside the utils.
In fact, let me show you
it, since we're here.
Preload images, there we
are, make a new image,
set the source, and then I
just use resolve and reject
as the handlers for
onload and onerror.
So when the image is actually
being preloaded, we apply it.
So we find the element
that we were talking about,
which is image.
And find the actual
child of that,
which is the class of
JS lazy image content.
So you can see, I
have JS lazy image
and JS lazy image content
as my two classes.
If I can't find it,
don't worry about it.
If I can, I set the
background image,
and then I add
this fade in, which
is an animation that fades
the opacity from 0 to 1.
So the idea of pre-loading the
image is to make sure that,
because it's a
background image--
here's the thing.
Because it's a background
image, there's no guarantee
that if I just set
the background image
and then started fading in,
that the image wouldn't be
part loaded during the fade in.
You get that bizarre
it's fading but it's also
loading at the same time feel.
So I preload it, which is
make sure it's definitely
in the cache.
And we talked previously
about my caching headers.
So the image should come
with good caching headers.
Preload it. get it.
Make sure it's there.
And then, we can
see that background.
So when we set the background
image, it goes, oh.
I better go and get that image.
And he goes, oh, it's
already there in the cache.
Let me just use that.
Pop.
And it means that we don't
get the partly downloaded kind
of feel with our images.
And that's it.
So using IntersectionObserver is
a nice progressive enhancement
move.
I'm enjoying it.
It does the job perfectly.
If we have a long page with a
lot of content in and somebody
doesn't scroll down.
Why bother loading those images?
No need.
So it's not a lot
of code, is it?
115 or so lines of code
just to handle that.
Winning.
So there you go.
Next time, I'm going to have a
chat with you about what I've
been doing in the world of
offline and prefetching video.
And, oh my goodness,
has that been a journey.
Anyway, don't forget
that you can subscribe.
Don't forget you can
your comments in,
your questions in below.
And I will catch you next time.
Hello, thanks for watching.
If you enjoyed this
video, well, you
may enjoy other videos
that we make too.
So don't forget that
you can subscribe.
And you'll get notified when
we push out a new video.
And, there's more
videos over there
or down there, depending on how
you're watching the YouTubes,
right now.
Definitely click on those.